#summary Instructions for building maRla
#labels Phase-Implementation

=Quick Start=
maRla builds through an ant script and will build at a basic level in any JDK environment. To fully use the package-for-store and create-installer build targets (producing the Windows installer, most notably), [http://nsis.sourceforge.net/ NSIS] and [http://launch4j.sourceforge.net/ launch4j] need to be installed and on the path.

=Build Environment=
The following environments are recommended for building maRla. Most development can occur with only ant and JDK 1.6+, with the final packaging steps requiring additional setup. The programs listed below should be installed on each OS, with additional notes as needed. Version numbers are those as of the writing of this document, although other version may work as well.

==Windows==
  # *[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java Development Kit]* v1.6+
  # [http://netbeans.org/downloads/index.html NetBeans] v7.0+
  # [http://launch4j.sourceforge.net/ launch4j] v3.0.2
    * Must be installed to `C:\Program Files\launch4j`
    * If moved, modifications to [http://code.google.com/p/marla/source/browse/trunk/maRlaIDE/build.xml build.xml] will be needed. See the launch4j task definition in that file
  # [http://nsis.sourceforge.net/ Nullsoft Scriptable Install System] v2.46
    * After install, place the directory with `makensis.exe` on the `PATH`
    * By default, this would be `%Program Files%\NSIS`

==Linux==
Your distribution may have packages for many of these items:
  # *[http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html Java Development Kit]* v1.6+
  # [http://netbeans.org/downloads/index.html NetBeans] v7.0+
  # [http://launch4j.sourceforge.net/ launch4j] v3.0.2
    * Must be installed to `/opt/launch4j/`
    * If moved, modifications to [http://code.google.com/p/marla/source/browse/trunk/maRlaIDE/build.xml build.xml] will be needed. See the launch4j task definition in that file
  # [http://nsis.sourceforge.net/ Nullsoft Scriptable Install System] v2.46
    * After install, ensure the directory with `makensis` on the `PATH`

==Mac OSX==
TBD. Largely similar to Linux though.

=Getting the source=
Instructions for getting the maRla source code are available under the [http://code.google.com/p/marla/source/checkout Source] tab.

=Ant targets=
Once the build environment is setup, building of maRla can be done through ant (or NetBeans interface to ant). The most important special targets are the following.
  * package-for-store - creates a single jar that contains all of maRla and its libraries, plus copies the needed default ops.xml and export_template.xml to the `./store` directory.
  * create-installer - builds the Windows installer and zips up required files for distribution to other platforms.