#summary Covers the export template XML
#labels Featured
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Introduction =
The LaTeX export template format is essentially a LaTeX document with markers sprinkled throughout to designate where content should be substituted. The example at the bottom [ExportTemplateXML#Example] is a good way to get the overview quickly.

The root element is a `<template />` that takes no attributes. From there any of the following elements may be included:

= Elements =
== Name ==
{{{
<name />
}}}
_Coming soon._

Name of the creator of the document.

== Class ==
{{{
<class type="short|long" />
}}}
_Coming soon._

Name of the class this problem is for. Classes may be given either short names (eg _MA2510_) or long names (eg, _Probability and Statistics_).

== Chapter ==
{{{
<chapter />
}}}
_Coming soon._

Chapter this problem comes from.

== Section ==
{{{
<section />
}}}
_Coming soon._

Chapter section this problem comes from.

== Problem Number ==
{{{
<probnum />
}}}
_Coming soon._

This problem's problem number in the section/chapter. 

== Statement ==
{{{
<statement />
}}}
Description of the problem from the book, as entered in the problem wizard. If done outside a loop (see [ExportTemplateXML#Loop]), this gives the main problem statement. If done inside a loop, returns the current subproblem's problem statement.

== Solution ==
{{{
<solution />
}}}
R code to solve the problem. If done outside a loop (see [ExportTemplateXML#Loop]), this creates Sweave blocks for every operation in the problem. If done inside a loop, creates a Sweave block for the current subproblem's designated solution.

== Loop ==
{{{
<loop type="subproblem">...</loop>
}}}

Loops over each of the subproblems. Allows their individual statements and solutions to be examined. See [ExportTemplateXML#Statement] and [ExportTemplateXML#Solution].

= Example = 
A complete example.
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<template>
\documentclass[10pt,letterpaper]{article}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{enumerate}
\usepackage{array}

\begin{document}
\begin{flushright}
<name />\par
<class type="short" /> --- <class type="long" />\par
Chapter <chapter />-Section <section />-Problem \#<probnum />
\end{flushright}

\noindent\textbf{\Large Given}\par
<statement />

\vfil\noindent\textbf{\Large Required}\par
\begin{enumerate}[(a)]
<loop type="subproblem">
\item <statement />
</loop>
\end{enumerate}

\vfil\noindent\textbf{\Large Analysis and Solution}\par
Everything:
<solution />

\begin{enumerate}[(a)]
<loop type="subproblem">
\item
	<solution />
</loop>
\end{enumerate}

\end{document}
</template>
}}}